# NBA-Salary-Prediction

Predicting NBA expected salary for players in the season 2020-2021.

# Background and Purpose of the Project:
The National Basketball Association (NBA) is a men’s professional basketball league in North America. Player salaries are affected by tons of factors, such as their age, position, experience, performance as reflected by various basic and advanced game statistics, their business value in terms of their outside income and fan base across the world and income outside the court. Furthermore, players' value is also influenced by extrinsic factors which might be overlooked for readers unexperienced with the topic at hand. The general salary cap for each team, constraints established for rookie contracts which prevent younger player to sign high contracts until they have been in the league for some time and players' desire to be a part of a competitive team, are other important variables to consider which might result on underpayed players willing to put their talents at service of the franchises for a reduced price.

We are curious about how much each of the performance related factors contribute to player's current salaries. For example, does per game assists explain salaries to a certain extent? This project uses Python to analyze the relationship between salaries and the factors mentioned above. Specifically the model takes individual players’ current year statistics as inputs and returns their predicted salaries. We are hopeful that our model would be of referential value to the general managers and individual players and their agents in negotiating the contracts. We would also like to showcase cases where maximizing the difference between the expected and actual salary, showing who are the most overpayed and underpayed players in the league.

The last part of the project consists on a cluster analysis of the players, dividing them in 3 clusters according to their level of impact (both in terms of salary and statical relevance) in the league. 
